# OpenGL Learning
Most code are slightly modified from [Learn OpenGL](https://learnopengl.com/). The main difference is that this uses a more Object-oriented approach and organized the code a bit.  
This repository is me experimenting with OpenGL and try to understand what it does.  

# Compiling
## Compiling for current platform
First, download CMake for your system. Then, use cmake to generate the project files and build the project.
```shell
git clone https://github.com/AnsonYeung/OpenglLearning.git --recursive
cd OpenglLearning
cmake -S . -B build
cmake --build build --parallel 8
```
If you forgot to clone recursively, cmake will complain about `lib/glfw`, use the following command to clone the submodules
```shell
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
You may need to install header files for GLFW to compile. See [compiling GLFW](https://www.glfw.org/docs/latest/compile.html) for the required headers.  
On Debian and derivatives, you can use the following command to get all the dependencies.
```shell
sudo apt install xorg-dev
```
The default project files generated by cmake may be Visual Studio project files, XCode project files or Makefile depending on your platform.
## Compile in Visual Studio
```shell
cmake -S . -B build
```
Open the solution in the `build` folder, then set `app` as startup project and compile.
## Cross-compiling on Unix for Windows
Cross compiling will static link `libgcc` and `libstdc++` as the required dll might be absent in the running environment
```
cmake -S . -B build -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=cmake/x86_64-w64-mingw32.cmake
cd build && make -j8
```

# Running
The binary has to be executed with the project root as the working directory for it to find the shader files.
